# Rubric 

## Introduction (4 points) 

1. An introduction that is scoring a single point either doesn’t exist, or has given a very cursory treatment for the setting of the question and why an answer based on statistics is necessary. 
2. An introduction that scores two points has made some attempt to describe the problem and its importance, but it is missing significant parts of this argument. The language might be poorly chosen, the argument loosely formed, or the context left unexplained; there is considerable room for improvement. 
3. An introduction that scores three points has done a significant amount of successful work. The reader can place the topic area and the research question; understand and appreciate why this is a question that demands a data based answer. Keeping this introduction from a full, four-point score might be: small issues with writing, some lack of continuity in the argument, or some other such small issue that keeps this from being a wholly convincing introduction. 
4. An introduction that scores four points has very successfully made the case for the reader. It will have placed the specific question in context, connected the problem with the statistics and data that will be used, and have generally created a compelling case for continuing to read the report. 

## Conceptualization and Operationalization (4 points) 

1. A report that scores a single point on conceptualization and operationalization will have failed to connect the concepts that have been identified in the introduction to the data in any meaningful way. As a consequence, it is not possible for the reader to know that any analysis that comes from this report has any bearing on the question at hand. 
2. A report that scores two points on conceptualization and operationalization will have attempted to connect the introduction into defined concepts; and will have also attempted to find measures in the data that map onto those concepts, but will have run into significant challenges. Either the concepts are not developed enough for any measure to be meaningful; or the choice of measure does not match with the concept. 
3. A report that scores three points on conceptualization and operationalization will have done good work to define a concept and a measure that corresponds to that concept. Keeping this report from full marks might be some imprecision in the definition of the concept; or some mis-match between the concept and the eventual data that is used. 
4. A report that scores a full four points on conceptualization and operationalization will have done a wholly adequate job connecting the context and research question from the introduction to a set of clearly, and precisely defined concepts. From these concepts, the report will have identified data that clearly does a good job of measuring these concepts; the argument will be clear, concise, and complete. 

## Data Wrangling (3 points) 

1. A report that scores a single point on data wrangling has significant issues in how the data has been prepared for analysis. The data may choose to use inappropriate, or non-descriptive variables; may have made several mis-steps in the data preparation; or otherwise made choices in the preparation of the data that cast doubt on any results that might come from the analysis. 
2. A report that scores two points on data wrangling will have tried, but not fully achieved the aims for a modern, legible data pipeline from data to analysis. None of the problems cast doubt on the results, but might mean that it would be difficult to contribute to this project in the future, difficult to read this analysis for the present reader, or some other such flaw. 
3. A report that scores a full three points on data wrangling will have succeeded -- relative to expectations at this point in the course -- to produce a modern, legible data pipeline from analysis to data. At this point in the course, a three point data wrangling can still have issues that keep it from being professional-grade, but these are the types of issues that might be expected for early-programmers: variable names might be communicative, but clumsy; pipelines might work, but be inefficient, etc. 

## Argument with Data (3 points) 

1. A report that scores a single point on “Argument with Data” will have serious issues with the plot or table that was used to move the argument forward.
2. A report that scores a two points on “Argument with Data” will have chosen either a table or a plot that communicates a point that helps the reader understand the distribution of the data and contextualises the results of the test that might be shown later; while the choice of plot or table moves the argument forward, it could be more convincing in its effect. . If this is a table, it may not have used appropriate labels for rows and columns, or will have reported values in a way that could be more legible and communicative. If a plot, the plot may not have been appropriately titled and labeled; or the choice of presentation may not have fully communicated the pattern that the team wants to make. Also possible, is that the plot or a table was not discussed in the text. 
3. A report that scores a full three points on “Argument with Data” will have chosen either a table or a plot that clearly communicates a point that helps the reader understand the distribution of the data and contextualises the results of the test that might be shown later. If this is a table, it will have used appropriate labels for rows and columns, and will have reported values in a way that is legible and communicative. If a plot, the plot will be titled and labeled; and the choice of presentation will communicate the pattern that the team wants to make. Either a plot or a table will also be discussed in text. 

## Framing a Hypothesis (4 points) 

1. A report that scores a single point will have significant problems with how the null hypothesis is stated. Either it will be incorrectly stated as an alternative hypothesis; or, it will be unrelated to the question at hand; or some other major flaw. 
2. A report that scores two points will have stated a hypothesis, but it might be loosely related to the question at hand; unclear, or insufficiently precise to serve as a testing basis, or some other serious issue. 
3. A report that scores three points will have stated a null that is sensible and testable. Keeping this hypothesis from scoring full points might be a small lack in the precision of the language; some gap between the argument/theory, data, and hypothesis, or some other small flaw that doesn’t jeopardize the overall validity of the framework, but keeps it from being wholly complete. 
4. A report that scores full points on framing a hypothesis will have stated a null that is reasonable and can be (will be…) eventually tested with the data. The hypothesis will be clearly stated, and will have a strong argument that moves from the concept and/or theory directly into this particular hypothesis. 

## Arguing for, and Assessing a Test (6 points) 

1. A report that scores a single point will have made very serious errors in its reasoning about a test. This might mean using a test that is unrelated to the question; or a test that is inappropriate to the data or some other very serious error that precludes any result from this test being able to inform the research question. 
2. A report that scores either two or three points will have serious errors in its reasoning about a test. It might use data that is an inappropriate level, or a test that doesn’t inform the question at hand. There is considerable room for improvement in an answer of this form. 
3. A report that scores either two or three points will have serious errors in its reasoning about a test. It might use data that is an inappropriate level, or a test that doesn’t inform the question at hand. There is considerable room for improvement in an answer of this form. 
4. A report that scores four points will have made an argument for a test, and this argument might be somewhat reasonable but there is significant room for improvement or errors in presentation. For example, metric data might be interpreted as ordinal; or, ordinal data as metric (which is a more serious problem). Or a test might be close to correct, but could instead have utilized a universally better powered test. 
5. A report that scores five points will have made a clear argument for the statistical test that is appropriate given the data, and the process that generates that data. This argument will be clear, precise, and correct. If there are limitations of the test, these will be identified, and reasoned about, but the report will be correct that this is the most appropriate test that can be conducted with this data. Keeping this argument from full points might be very small imprecision in language or statistics; but the test is correct despite these small issues. 
6. A report that scores a full six points will have made a clear argument for the statistical test that is appropriate given the data, and the process that generates that data. This argument will be clear, precise, and correct. If there are limitations of the test, these will be identified, and reasoned about, but the report will be correct that this is the most appropriate test that can be conducted with this data. 

## Test Results and Interpretation (6 points) 

1. A report that scores a single point will have very serious issues with how the test results are interpreted. They may be wrong; non-existent; mischaracterized; or some other such very serious issue. If there is any interpretation, it might be incorrect or unhelpful. 
2. A report that scores two points will have very serious issues with how the test results are interpreted. They may be wrong; non-existent; mischaracterized; or some other such very serious issue. If there is any interpretation, it might be incorrect or unhelpful. 
3. A report that scores three points will have some considerable errors in the testing. Either the results will be inappropriately interpreted -- statistically significant results might be interpreted as non-significant for example -- or will have failed to successfully connect the results of the test with an interpretation of what these results mean. 
4. A report that scores four points will have done much of the testing correctly, but might be missing either a statement of practical significance or interpretation of the results of the test. While the statistics might not be incorrect, they are not making a wholly compelling argument. 
5. A report that scores five points will have interpreted the results of the test appropriately, drawn a conclusion about statistical significance; placed these results in context with some statement about practical significance that is compelling to the reader. Keeping this from full points might be some lack of clarity or concision; or some very slight error in the interpretation of the test. 
6. A report that scores full points will have interpreted the results of the test appropriately, drawn a conclusion about statistical significance; placed these results in context with some statement about practical significance that is compelling to the reader; and will have done so in a way that is clear, concise, and correct. 

## Overall Effect (3 points) 

1. A report that scores a single point on overall effect will have significant issues in its presentation. These could be spelling, language, argument, formatting, or other issues that cause problems for the reader in their ability to read, evaluate, and take action on what is reported. 
2. A report that scores two points on overall effect will be largely professional; largely clearly written and structured; but will have some problem that inhibits the reader from being able to clearly reason from the report. 
3. A report that scores a full three points will have met expectations for professionalism in data-based writing, reasoning and argument for this point in the course. It can be presented, as is, to another student in the course, and that student could read, interpret and take away the aims, intents, and conclusions of the report. 


